README.md, before:

# AMC MRP System

Manufacturing Resource Planning system for Advanced Machine Co. with QuickBooks Online integration, document generation, and web dashboard for managing work orders and manufacturing operations.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Build all services (first time or after Dockerfile changes)
docker compose build

# Start all services
docker compose up -d

# Access web dashboard
open http://localhost:5001

# View logs
docker compose logs -f frontend
docker compose logs -f backend

# Rebuild and restart (for testing changes)
docker compose down && docker compose build && docker compose up -d

# Stop services
docker compose down
```

## System Architecture

### Services

**MariaDB Database (`mysql`)**
- Port: 3307 (host) → 3306 (container)
- Database: amcmrp
- Credentials: amc / Workbench.lavender.chrome
- Features: Fresh database on each startup, auto-loads DDL.sql and testdata.sql
- Build: Custom Dockerfile in database/ (mariadb:11)

**Web Dashboard with Document Generator (`frontend`)**
- Container: mrp-frontend
- Port: 5001 (5000 internal)
- URL: http://localhost:5001
- Purpose: User interface for work orders and document generation
- Components: Flask application, COC/PO generators, templates
- Dependencies: pandoc, LaTeX, LibreOffice, python-docx
- Build: Custom Dockerfile in frontend/
- Hot-reloading: Source code mounted for development

**QuickBooks Integration Backend (`backend`)**
- Container: mrp-backend
- Port: 5002
- Purpose: QuickBooks OAuth and data synchronization daemon
- Features: Token management, hourly cache updates, fuzzy search API
- Build: Custom Dockerfile in backend/
- Hot-reloading: Source code mounted for development

## Project Structure

```
amc-mrp/
├── backend/                      # QuickBooks integration daemon
│   ├── Dockerfile                # Backend build configuration
│   ├── .dockerignore             # Build optimization
│   ├── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
│   └── app.py                    # Backend service
├── frontend/                     # Web dashboard and document generator
│   ├── Dockerfile                # Frontend build configuration
│   ├── .dockerignore             # Build optimization
│   ├── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
│   ├── generators/               # Document generation code
│   │   ├── cocGenerate.py        # Certificate of Completion
│   │   ├── poGenerate.py         # Purchase Order
│   │   ├── test_coc.py           # COC testing
│   │   └── test_po.py            # PO testing
│   ├── templates/
│   │   └── documents/            # DOCX templates
│   ├── app.py                    # Flask application
│   └── run.py                    # Application entry point
├── database/                     # Database configuration
│   ├── Dockerfile                # Database build configuration
│   ├── .dockerignore             # Build optimization
│   ├── DDL.sql                   # Database schema
│   └── test_data/
│       └── testdata.sql          # Sample data
├── DevAssets/                    # Examples and development docs
├── docker-compose.yml            # Service orchestration
├── .env                          # Environment variables (not in git)
├── example.env                   # Environment template
├── CLAUDE.md                     # Development instructions
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## Business Workflow

1. **Customer PO Received** → Create Work Order with unique sequential number
2. **BOM Creation** → Define processes (raw material, plating, heat treatment, grinding)
3. **Vendor Assignment** → Link processes to QuickBooks vendors
4. **Internal PO Generation** → Create vendor POs for operations
5. **Work Order Tracking** → Monitor through manufacturing phases
6. **COC Generation** → Certificate of Completion for military clients
7. **QuickBooks Integration** → Invoice creation and payment tracking

## Environment Configuration

Required variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Database
DB_HOST=mysql
DB_NAME=amcmrp
DB_USER=amc
DB_PASSWORD=Workbench.lavender.chrome

# QuickBooks
QB_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
QB_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret
QB_SANDBOX_BASE_URL=https://sandbox-quickbooks.api.intuit.com
QB_COMPANY_ID=your_company_id

# Backend Service URL (for frontend-backend communication)
BACKEND_URL=http://backend:5002

# Flask
FLASK_SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key
PRODUCTION_URI=https://mrp.inge.st
```

## Common Commands

### Database Access
```bash
# From host
mysql -h localhost -P 3307 -u amc -p amcmrp
# Password: Workbench.lavender.chrome

# From MySQL container
docker compose exec mysql mysql -u amc -p amcmrp
```

### Document Generation Testing
```bash
# Access frontend container
docker compose exec frontend bash

# Run COC test
docker compose exec frontend python generators/test_coc.py

# Run PO test
docker compose exec frontend python generators/test_po.py
```

### Development Workflow
```bash
# Restart specific service
docker compose restart frontend

# View service status
docker compose ps

# Reset environment (fresh database)
docker compose down && docker compose up -d

# Rebuild after dependency changes
docker compose build [service-name]

# Check installed packages
docker compose exec frontend pip list
docker compose exec backend pip list
```

## Development Features

**Custom Docker Builds**
- Each service has its own Dockerfile
- Optimized with .dockerignore files
- Easy to rebuild: `docker compose build`
- Dependencies baked into images for consistency

**Live Code Reloading**
- Source code mounted as volumes for hot-reloading
- No rebuild needed for code changes
- Only rebuild when dependencies or Dockerfiles change
- Mounted volumes: backend/, frontend/

**Fresh Database**
- Database recreated on each startup (tmpfs storage)
- Always starts with clean schema from DDL.sql
- Test data loaded from testdata.sql
- Perfect for development and testing

**Integrated Document Generation**
- Document generators now integrated into frontend service
- Full pandoc and LaTeX support
- LibreOffice for DOCX to PDF conversion
- Generated files saved to frontend/CACHE/
- Templates in frontend/templates/documents/

## QuickBooks Integration

### Current Status
Backend daemon service with OAuth token management and data synchronization.

### Features
- Token refresh automation to prevent expiration
- Hourly cache updates for vendors, customers, products
- Fuzzy search indexing for quick lookups
- REST API for web dashboard integration

### Integration Points
- Customer data for work order creation
- Vendor information for BOM assignments
- Product/service codes for invoice line items
- Cost tracking through QuickBooks bill integration

## Troubleshooting

### Production API 404 Errors (nginx/reverse proxy setup)

When using a production URI with a reverse proxy (nginx, nginx proxy manager, etc.), you may encounter 404 errors for dashboard API endpoints. This happens when the proxy routes ALL `/api/*` requests to the backend service, but some API endpoints are on the frontend service.

**API Endpoint Locations:**
- Frontend (port 5001):
  - `/api/dashboard/metrics`
  - `/api/dashboard/charts`
  - `/api/qb/*` (proxies to backend internally)
- Backend (port 5002):
  - `/api/cache/status`
  - `/api/config`
  - `/api/auth/url`
  - `/api/disconnect`
  - `/api/test`
  - `/api/cache/refresh`
  - `/api/data/*`
  - `/callback` (OAuth callback)

**Correct nginx/proxy configuration:**

Option 1 - Route only specific backend paths (recommended):
```nginx
# Main site routes to frontend
location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5001;
}

# OAuth callback to backend
location /callback {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

# Only QuickBooks-specific API routes to backend
location /api/cache/ {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/config {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/auth/ {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/disconnect {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/test {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/data/ {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}
```

Option 2 - Route everything to frontend and let it proxy:
```nginx
# Route everything to frontend
location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5001;
}

# Only route OAuth callback to backend
location /callback {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}
```

**Permissions-Policy warnings:**
The browser warnings about `browsing-topics`, `run-ad-auction`, etc. are harmless and can be ignored. They appear when accessing the production URI from development and are related to privacy sandbox features.

### Database Connection Issues
```bash
# Check MariaDB health
docker compose ps

# View MariaDB logs
docker compose logs mysql

# Test connection from frontend
docker compose exec frontend python -c "import mysql.connector; print('OK')"
```

### PDF Generation Issues
```bash
# Test pandoc
docker compose exec gen-app pandoc --version

# Test LaTeX
docker compose exec gen-app xelatex --version

# Test LibreOffice
docker compose exec gen-app libreoffice --version
```

### Service Not Starting
```bash
# Check all service logs
docker compose logs

# Rebuild specific service from scratch
docker compose build --no-cache [service-name]

# Rebuild all services from scratch
docker compose build --no-cache

# Check Docker resources
docker system df
```

### Port Conflicts
Default ports: 3307 (MariaDB), 5001 (Web), 5002 (Backend)
Modify in docker-compose.yml if conflicts occur.

## Security Notes

### Development Environment
- Default credentials are used (DO NOT use in production)
- No persistent database volumes (fresh DB each startup)
- Local network access only
- File paths validated before downloads

### Production Recommendations
- Change all default passwords
- Use .env files (never commit to git)
- Add persistent database volumes
- Configure SSL/TLS
- Implement user authentication and authorization
- Enable audit logging
- Set up regular database backups
- Use secrets management (e.g., Docker secrets, Vault)

## Document Generation Requirements

- **COCs:** Required for military clients only
- **Internal POs:** Must link to work orders and BOMs
- All documents logged in database for retrieval
- Templates stored in filegen/file_templates/
- PDF output required for all document types
- Generated files cached in service-specific CACHE directories

## Support

### Getting Help
```bash
# Check service health
docker compose ps

# View detailed logs
docker compose logs [service-name]

# Follow live logs
docker compose logs -f [service-name]

# Complete restart
docker compose down && docker compose up -d
```

### Common Issues
- **Database connection errors:** Verify MySQL is healthy, check credentials
- **Missing dependencies:** Rebuild container or check requirements.txt
- **PDF generation fails:** Verify pandoc/LaTeX installation
- **File permission errors:** Check volume mount permissions
- **Service crash loops:** Check logs for specific error messages

Commit message:

Implement persistent OAuth token storage for QuickBooks credentials
OAuth tokens now persist across system reboots and container restarts by
storing them in the database instead of temporary file storage.

Database changes:
- Added OAuthTokens table to DDL.sql for persistent token storage
- Table stores access tokens, refresh tokens, company ID, and expiration
- Added to DROP section for proper cleanup during rebuilds

Backend changes (backend/app.py):
- Added pymysql import and database connection configuration
- Implemented get_db_connection() function for database access
- Updated load_tokens() to read from database with file fallback for migration
- Updated save_tokens() to persist tokens to database using upsert logic
- Updated clear_tokens() to delete from both database and legacy file
- Automatic migration from old file-based storage to database
- Maintains backward compatibility during transition

Documentation changes:
- Added OAuth Token Persistence section to README
- Documented benefits: persistence across restarts, no re-authentication needed
- Explained automatic migration from legacy storage
- Listed security benefits of database storage

This eliminates the need to re-authenticate with QuickBooks after every
container restart or system reboot, significantly improving developer and
production experience.

README.md, after:

# AMC MRP System

Manufacturing Resource Planning system for Advanced Machine Co. with QuickBooks Online integration, document generation, and web dashboard for managing work orders and manufacturing operations.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Build all services (first time or after Dockerfile changes)
docker compose build

# Start all services
docker compose up -d

# Access web dashboard
open http://localhost:5001

# View logs
docker compose logs -f frontend
docker compose logs -f backend

# Rebuild and restart (for testing changes)
docker compose down && docker compose build && docker compose up -d

# Stop services
docker compose down
```

## System Architecture

### Services

**MariaDB Database (`mysql`)**
- Port: 3307 (host) → 3306 (container)
- Database: amcmrp
- Credentials: amc / Workbench.lavender.chrome
- Features: Fresh database on each startup, auto-loads DDL.sql and testdata.sql
- Build: Custom Dockerfile in database/ (mariadb:11)

**Web Dashboard with Document Generator (`frontend`)**
- Container: mrp-frontend
- Port: 5001 (5000 internal)
- URL: http://localhost:5001
- Purpose: User interface for work orders and document generation
- Components: Flask application, COC/PO generators, templates
- Dependencies: pandoc, LaTeX, LibreOffice, python-docx
- Build: Custom Dockerfile in frontend/
- Hot-reloading: Source code mounted for development

**QuickBooks Integration Backend (`backend`)**
- Container: mrp-backend
- Port: 5002
- Purpose: QuickBooks OAuth and data synchronization daemon
- Features: Token management, hourly cache updates, fuzzy search API
- Build: Custom Dockerfile in backend/
- Hot-reloading: Source code mounted for development

## Project Structure

```
amc-mrp/
├── backend/                      # QuickBooks integration daemon
│   ├── Dockerfile                # Backend build configuration
│   ├── .dockerignore             # Build optimization
│   ├── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
│   └── app.py                    # Backend service
├── frontend/                     # Web dashboard and document generator
│   ├── Dockerfile                # Frontend build configuration
│   ├── .dockerignore             # Build optimization
│   ├── requirements.txt          # Python dependencies
│   ├── generators/               # Document generation code
│   │   ├── cocGenerate.py        # Certificate of Completion
│   │   ├── poGenerate.py         # Purchase Order
│   │   ├── test_coc.py           # COC testing
│   │   └── test_po.py            # PO testing
│   ├── templates/
│   │   └── documents/            # DOCX templates
│   ├── app.py                    # Flask application
│   └── run.py                    # Application entry point
├── database/                     # Database configuration
│   ├── Dockerfile                # Database build configuration
│   ├── .dockerignore             # Build optimization
│   ├── DDL.sql                   # Database schema
│   └── test_data/
│       └── testdata.sql          # Sample data
├── DevAssets/                    # Examples and development docs
├── docker-compose.yml            # Service orchestration
├── .env                          # Environment variables (not in git)
├── example.env                   # Environment template
├── CLAUDE.md                     # Development instructions
└── README.md                     # This file
```

## Business Workflow

1. **Customer PO Received** → Create Work Order with unique sequential number
2. **BOM Creation** → Define processes (raw material, plating, heat treatment, grinding)
3. **Vendor Assignment** → Link processes to QuickBooks vendors
4. **Internal PO Generation** → Create vendor POs for operations
5. **Work Order Tracking** → Monitor through manufacturing phases
6. **COC Generation** → Certificate of Completion for military clients
7. **QuickBooks Integration** → Invoice creation and payment tracking

## Environment Configuration

Required variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Database
DB_HOST=mysql
DB_NAME=amcmrp
DB_USER=amc
DB_PASSWORD=Workbench.lavender.chrome

# QuickBooks
QB_CLIENT_ID=your_client_id
QB_CLIENT_SECRET=your_client_secret
QB_SANDBOX_BASE_URL=https://sandbox-quickbooks.api.intuit.com
QB_COMPANY_ID=your_company_id

# Backend Service URL (for frontend-backend communication)
BACKEND_URL=http://backend:5002

# Flask
FLASK_SECRET_KEY=your_secret_key
PRODUCTION_URI=https://mrp.inge.st
```

## Common Commands

### Database Access
```bash
# From host
mysql -h localhost -P 3307 -u amc -p amcmrp
# Password: Workbench.lavender.chrome

# From MySQL container
docker compose exec mysql mysql -u amc -p amcmrp
```

### Document Generation Testing
```bash
# Access frontend container
docker compose exec frontend bash

# Run COC test
docker compose exec frontend python generators/test_coc.py

# Run PO test
docker compose exec frontend python generators/test_po.py
```

### Development Workflow
```bash
# Restart specific service
docker compose restart frontend

# View service status
docker compose ps

# Reset environment (fresh database)
docker compose down && docker compose up -d

# Rebuild after dependency changes
docker compose build [service-name]

# Check installed packages
docker compose exec frontend pip list
docker compose exec backend pip list
```

## Development Features

**Custom Docker Builds**
- Each service has its own Dockerfile
- Optimized with .dockerignore files
- Easy to rebuild: `docker compose build`
- Dependencies baked into images for consistency

**Live Code Reloading**
- Source code mounted as volumes for hot-reloading
- No rebuild needed for code changes
- Only rebuild when dependencies or Dockerfiles change
- Mounted volumes: backend/, frontend/

**Fresh Database**
- Database recreated on each startup (tmpfs storage)
- Always starts with clean schema from DDL.sql
- Test data loaded from testdata.sql
- Perfect for development and testing

**Integrated Document Generation**
- Document generators now integrated into frontend service
- Full pandoc and LaTeX support
- LibreOffice for DOCX to PDF conversion
- Generated files saved to frontend/CACHE/
- Templates in frontend/templates/documents/

## QuickBooks Integration

### Current Status
Backend daemon service with OAuth token management and data synchronization.

### Features
- **Persistent OAuth token storage** - Tokens saved to database and persist across container restarts
- Token refresh automation to prevent expiration
- Hourly cache updates for vendors, customers, products
- Fuzzy search indexing for quick lookups
- REST API for web dashboard integration

### OAuth Token Persistence
OAuth credentials are now stored in the `OAuthTokens` database table instead of temporary file storage. This ensures:
- Credentials persist across system reboots and container restarts
- No need to re-authenticate after restarting services
- Automatic migration from legacy file-based storage (if exists)
- Secure database storage with proper access controls

When you first authenticate with QuickBooks, the tokens are automatically saved to the database. On subsequent restarts, the backend service loads these tokens automatically.

### Integration Points
- Customer data for work order creation
- Vendor information for BOM assignments
- Product/service codes for invoice line items
- Cost tracking through QuickBooks bill integration

## Troubleshooting

### Production API 404 Errors (nginx/reverse proxy setup)

When using a production URI with a reverse proxy (nginx, nginx proxy manager, etc.), you may encounter 404 errors for dashboard API endpoints. This happens when the proxy routes ALL `/api/*` requests to the backend service, but some API endpoints are on the frontend service.

**API Endpoint Locations:**
- Frontend (port 5001):
  - `/api/dashboard/metrics`
  - `/api/dashboard/charts`
  - `/api/qb/*` (proxies to backend internally)
- Backend (port 5002):
  - `/api/cache/status`
  - `/api/config`
  - `/api/auth/url`
  - `/api/disconnect`
  - `/api/test`
  - `/api/cache/refresh`
  - `/api/data/*`
  - `/callback` (OAuth callback)

**Correct nginx/proxy configuration:**

Option 1 - Route only specific backend paths (recommended):
```nginx
# Main site routes to frontend
location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5001;
}

# OAuth callback to backend
location /callback {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

# Only QuickBooks-specific API routes to backend
location /api/cache/ {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/config {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/auth/ {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/disconnect {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/test {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}

location /api/data/ {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}
```

Option 2 - Route everything to frontend and let it proxy:
```nginx
# Route everything to frontend
location / {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5001;
}

# Only route OAuth callback to backend
location /callback {
    proxy_pass http://localhost:5002;
}
```

**Permissions-Policy warnings:**
The browser warnings about `browsing-topics`, `run-ad-auction`, etc. are harmless and can be ignored. They appear when accessing the production URI from development and are related to privacy sandbox features.

### Database Connection Issues
```bash
# Check MariaDB health
docker compose ps

# View MariaDB logs
docker compose logs mysql

# Test connection from frontend
docker compose exec frontend python -c "import mysql.connector; print('OK')"
```

### PDF Generation Issues
```bash
# Test pandoc
docker compose exec gen-app pandoc --version

# Test LaTeX
docker compose exec gen-app xelatex --version

# Test LibreOffice
docker compose exec gen-app libreoffice --version
```

### Service Not Starting
```bash
# Check all service logs
docker compose logs

# Rebuild specific service from scratch
docker compose build --no-cache [service-name]

# Rebuild all services from scratch
docker compose build --no-cache

# Check Docker resources
docker system df
```

### Port Conflicts
Default ports: 3307 (MariaDB), 5001 (Web), 5002 (Backend)
Modify in docker-compose.yml if conflicts occur.

## Security Notes

### Development Environment
- Default credentials are used (DO NOT use in production)
- No persistent database volumes (fresh DB each startup)
- Local network access only
- File paths validated before downloads

### Production Recommendations
- Change all default passwords
- Use .env files (never commit to git)
- Add persistent database volumes
- Configure SSL/TLS
- Implement user authentication and authorization
- Enable audit logging
- Set up regular database backups
- Use secrets management (e.g., Docker secrets, Vault)

## Document Generation Requirements

- **COCs:** Required for military clients only
- **Internal POs:** Must link to work orders and BOMs
- All documents logged in database for retrieval
- Templates stored in filegen/file_templates/
- PDF output required for all document types
- Generated files cached in service-specific CACHE directories

## Support

### Getting Help
```bash
# Check service health
docker compose ps

# View detailed logs
docker compose logs [service-name]

# Follow live logs
docker compose logs -f [service-name]

# Complete restart
docker compose down && docker compose up -d
```

### Common Issues
- **Database connection errors:** Verify MySQL is healthy, check credentials
- **Missing dependencies:** Rebuild container or check requirements.txt
- **PDF generation fails:** Verify pandoc/LaTeX installation
- **File permission errors:** Check volume mount permissions
- **Service crash loops:** Check logs for specific error messages
